# Architecture Decision Record (ADR)

Project Name: Endless Resume

Decision Title: Frontend: SvelteKit \
Status: Accepted \
Date: 2026-06-16

1. **Context** Describe the problem and constraints that required a decision.

- The resume editor requires a dashboard, printing page, and other pages that require shared state for resume data and Auth.
- The user should be able to create, edit, and print resumes at minimum.

2. **Decision** State the architectural decision clearly.

We decided upon using Sveltekit in client-side rendering mode to take advantage of the spa's data persitance across pages and routing setup. Svelte will make state management easy without degrading performance.

3. **Rationale (Data-Based)** Cite specific metrics from your scorecard that justify this decision.

All three of our bakeoffs had small bundle sizes for Svelte compared to other component rendering frameworks like Vue and React.

4. **Consequences and Risks** Identify trade-offs, known risks, and how your team will mitigate them.

- AI struggles to create examples of Svelte 5 code. To mitigate this, we will be referencing the official documentation.
- Svelte has good developer tools, type checking, and linting, which can use to ensure AI code is up to good quality.

5. **Alternatives Considered** Briefly explain why the 2nd place stack was not selected.

- Svelte provides the best balance for our team in terms of both user and developer experience.
- Other frameworks may have been more performance or ease-of-use, but when it comes to both aspects Svelte was superior.
