# Architecture Decision Record (ADR)

Project Name: Endless Resume

Decision Title: Database: MongoDB + MongoDB Atlas \
Status: Accepted \
Date: 2026-06-16

1. **Context** Describe the problem and constraints that required a decision.

- Data must be stored in a fluid manner with a flexbile schema.
- Performance is essential, and anything we can do to improve said performance, be it in caching and proper distribution of data is desired.

2. **Decision** State the architectural decision clearly.

We also decided on MongoDB for our database solution due to NoSQL being better suited for the type of data we will be storing

3. **Rationale (Data-Based)** Cite specific metrics from your scorecard that justify this decision.

- NoSQL supports flexible schemas, allowing for the easy addition of custom fields into the database, each key-value pair being accessible for use on the frontend.
- MongoDB is very accessible and stable. MongoDB atlas is free and sports its own hosting, cutting down the amount of time needed for deployment.
- MongoDB allows for easy access to our data while also making it availabe to each of us. If we need another database for testing purposes, it is a simple matter to do so via MongoDB Atlas's dashboard.

4. **Consequences and Risks** Identify trade-offs, known risks, and how your team will mitigate them.

- With a flexible schema, we run the risk of having bloated documents which may result in performance loss. However, we believe that we are saving performance in that we will have less need to access multiple tables with a single query.
- There may be overhead because each lambda has to recreate connections to the database rather than use Mongo's TCP pooling system, but it shouldn't be as big of a problem if we make state availabe globally within our spa and only fetch when needed.

5. **Alternatives Considered** Briefly explain why the 2nd place stack was not selected.

- Postgres may have bettter serverless support, but a non-relational database will be more flexible for storing fluid resumes.
- We also considered using MongoDB in a docker container, however we decided against it as we do not want to require each developer to have their own copy of the data and schema being used in development.
